# Few-Shot IDD Annotations

This sub-repository contains the bounding box annotations used for performing few-shot object detection as mentioned in the paper **Few-Shot Learning for Road Object Detection** ([AAAI-21 Workshop on Meta-Learning](https://metalearning.chalearn.org/)). A pre-print version of the paper is on [ArXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.12543).

These annotations were generated by reclassifying the `vehicle fallback` category objects in [IDD-Detection dataset](https://idd.insaan.iiit.ac.in/dataset/details/). We expand the "vehicle fallback" category to create 5 novel classes - <code> street cart, water tanker, tractor, excavator (JCB), crane. </code>

For technical details please refer -
Anay Majee, Kshitij Agrawal, Anbumani Subramanian, **"Few-Shot Learning for Road Object Detection"** , Workshop on Meta-Learning, Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), 2021, [https://metalearning.chalearn.org/](https://metalearning.chalearn.org/) 

## Few-Shot IDD data splits

As mentioned in our [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.12543) we create two data splits:

1. **IDD-10** - Consists of 10 representative (abundant samples available) classes from IDD-Detection dataset.
2. **IDD-OS** - Consists of 14 categories from IDD-Detection dataset with 10 `base-classes` and 4 `novel-classes` - <code> street cart, water tanker, tractor, excavator (JCB) </code>.

```
NOTE : The annotations released as a part of this repository constitute the novel classes in IDD-OS datasplit. Refer the paper for more details.
```

## Annotation Format
The annotations are released in CSV format through [fewshot_idd_annotations.csv](fewshot_idd_annotations.csv).

The CSV file consists of 803 bounding box instances, sorted by size, from both the `train` and `val` splits in IDD-Detection dataset. Please refer to the paper for more details.

Each record in the CSV file contains the following information (in the same order):

```
label               -> The label of the instance as mentioned in IDD-Detection,
vfbLabel            -> New assigned label of the instance for few-shot object detection,
XML                 -> Path to the original annotation file (XML format), 
Thisbox             -> Indicates the index of the bounding box in the annotation file, 
NoBoxes             -> Indicates number of bounding boxes in the image, 
BoxSize             -> Area in pixel of the bounding box, 
x_{min}, y_{min}    -> Coordinates for the top left corner of the bounding box,
x_{max}, y_{max}    -> Coordinates for the bottom right corner of the bounding box
```

NOTE: `label` corresponds to the `vehicle fallback` category in IDD-Detection. 

## Directions for use
This set of annotations are useful only during training on IDD-OS dataset.
1. Download the publicly available IDD-Detection dataset from [here](https://idd.insaan.iiit.ac.in/dataset/details/).
2. Replace the object classes labelled as `vehicle fallback` with the class names mentioned as `Re-classified label` in the released CSV.

NOTE: The directions for training and inferencing on the dataset is mentioned in the paper.

## Reference
```
@inproceedings{majee2021fewshot,
    title={Few-Shot Learning for Road Object Detection},
    author={Anay Majee and Kshitij Agrawal and Anbumani Subramanian},
    booktitle = {AAAI Workshop on Meta-Learning},
    year={2021}
}
```
